The line graph shows/depicts the data of youth violent crime rates that fell in 1996 and 2006 on the X-axis. It highlights the number of crime rate changes over the years, and we can see the dynamics of crimes of different types - offenses between 1996 and 2006.
On the Y-axis, we can see some youth aged between 12 and 17 years per one hundred thousand people as a selection who we are using to show the dynamics over the years for each of our crime offenses.

The most apparent trough for every type is in the year 1998, although the reason is not obvious, and we can only try guessing what was happening before this year.
Property crime plateaued from 1998 up until late 2003 when the YCJA was introduced, but for the same gap the "Total Criminal Code Offences(excluding traffic)" fluctuated quite a few times, and the most pronounced points are in the mid-two thousand, where it reached its peak, and then in mid-2001 where it reached a trough, and then again starts its growth in late 2002. Here "the introduction of the YCJA (Juth Criminal Justice Act)" comes into play and regulation - where this line only impacts the "Total Criminal Code offenses" and "Property crimes" in a way that makes these respective crimes more manageable and regulated, though at the year 2005 "Total Criminal Code Offences" and "Other Criminal Code Offences" take their new rise and there is no evident difference for other types, maybe a flaw was found in that regulation, or a new cause has appeared.

By looking at "'Other' Criminal Code offenses" we can see infrequent fluctuations over the years. The growth started in early 1996 and continued to the most evident in the year 2005.

Even though the dynamics of "Violent crime" are not very distinct we still can highlight a few spots on the graph which can be seen in the year 1998 when it starts creeping up slowly until the year 1999, then stops growing as this growth is almost unseen, and then again, we can see that the YCJA has not impacted this type of crime.

Generally speaking, we can understand that "violent crime" and "Other Criminal Code Offences" have an impact on them that is not really trackable and can be seen as it happens for two other lines. Whereas between "Total Criminal Code offenses" and "Property crime" there is a positive correlation in some specific period from 2002 to 2005.